# WDI: SECOND PROJECT

<h1>snoozr</h1>
<h2>a GA nap app</h2>

* Practice building basic Rails apps that connect to a non-relational (Mongo) database
* Use RESTful routes
* Implement CRUD (Create/Read/Update/Destroy) functionality in an app
* Write an authentication system by hand (no gems besides BCrypt!)


You will be working **individually** for this first project, and you'll be designing the app yourself. Remember to keep things small -- scope creep/feature creep is the biggest pitfall for this project!

## CORE REQUIREMENTS
Make sure to do all of the following with your app.

* Rails 4 app with MongoDB (Mongoid gem + MongoHQ on Heroku)
* Full CRUD functionality in at least one controller
* Authentication by-hand
* RESTful routes

## CHALLENGE ADD-ONS
These are for extra credit! Don't forget -- you'll need to have your base app complete before you build any of these in -- so plan for different stages of your project, including one that meets only the core requirements.

* Style your app with Bootstrap/SASS
* Have multiple models/additional controllers
* Use an API -- Google Maps, Yelp, etc


## PLANNING & DELIVERABLES

####Project Plan deliverables:

* **Pitch** -- sell the entire class on your project idea (make sure that it makes sense with the objectives!).
* **Stories in Pivotal Tracker** -- we'll be paying closer attention this time, so be sure to keep up with your Tracker


####Completed Project deliverables:

* Link to Heroku hosted project
* Link to source code on GitHub


## TIMELINE (Weeks 5-7)

* **Pitch day**: Friday, Week 5. ---> **December 19, 2014**
* **Demo day**: Wednesday, Week 7. ---> **January 14, 2015**
* **Code reviews**: end of Week 7

## Things to keep in mind
Make sure that your code is:

* DRY. Follow Ruby best practices!
* RESTful. Do things the Rails way.
* Well-formatted. Are you indenting well? Can we find the start and end of every div, curly brace, etc?
* Well-commented. Will I understand what is going on in each block or function?
* Clear. Do your naming conventions make sense? Would another developer be able to look at your app and understand what everything is?


We’ll also be looking at:

* Quality of communication around decision-making. Can you defend why you chose
a certain technology or why you implemented your solution in a certain way?
* Your ability to pick up new technologies and push yourself. Were you able to make the app you pitched? What makes it exceptional?